---
title: PHP vs. VB6
author: Kevin Lloyd
type: post
date: 2006-11-28T02:08:06+00:00
url: /php-vs-vb6/
views:
  - 1
categories:
  - PHP

---
<!--adsense-->This is funny. I can&#8217;t tell you how funny this is. They&#8217;re actually comparing PHP to VB6. Basically, VB6 sucks as a language and for that reason should be reduced to scripting where as PHP is somewhat similar because it makes an excellent scripting language.

[Karl][1] over at [CodeBetter.com][1] writes:

> **PHP is NOT Object Oriented**
  
> As a language, PHP&#8217;s object-support is quite rich. Since the introduction of PHP5, developers have had the same level of OO support as most other languages. Of course, there&#8217;s nothing forcing developers to use OO principals.
> 
> **Layering**
  
> The only support for layering offered by PHP is the include/require functions. Like OO, proper layering can greatly increase code readability and maintainability. Much like in classic ASP, most developers tightly intertwine their PHP and HTML.
> 
> **Exception Handling**
  
> Exception handling in PHP is like object oriented programming – it&#8217;s supported but not used. The PHP framework scarcely makes use of structured exception handling as do most of the online samples. The example which always gets under my skin is the MySQL library.
> 
> **Other Issues**
  
> The fact that PHP is a loosely typed language can lead to significant difficulties for larger projects. Strongly-typed languages like C#, VB.NET and Java can take full advantages of compile-time checking and design-time tools (IDEs) while loosely-typed ones generally can&#8217;t.

 [1]: http://codebetter.com/blogs/karlseguin/archive/2006/11/26/Is-PHP-the-new-VB6_3F00_.aspx